---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

## May 20 - May 24

Colleen Lewis reached out to me over the weekend to invite me to join a computer science research and reading group at UIUC. These groups meet on Tuesdays and Fridays, and I attended meetings for both groups this week in addition to my second strand1 meeting, the monthly meeting for the entire INVITE Institute, and a meeting with the WHIMC Barrelbot team. Midweek, I received an email invitation to attend the CS 2024 Summer Research Lunch & Learns. This speaker series will be held on Tuesdays at noon beginning next week.

On Monday, I had my weekly check-in with Luc. He asked me to choose one or two of the questions he had about the database to see if I could extract that data. So, I started the week learning how to export and query from the database using HeidiSQL to find out how many times a player attempted a puzzle before reaching a solution. I tried a few different mySQL queries which may or may not be correct, but I won't be able to truly test these queries until some of the issues I encountered with data collection are corrected.

So, I reached out to Luc and Juan to ask how I should proceed. Luc said I should try working outside of the database by either using Excel to prototype the data or by using Python to analyze the data. I decided to attempt the latter after my first weekly meeting with Juan. He shared some information with me about how to use Python and Pandas to extract and analyze the data. I spent Thursday and Friday teaching myself how to use these tools, and I began writing my own code to extract data from the mySQL database remotely.