---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---
## Early May

Before beginning the program, [Luc Paquette](https://education.illinois.edu/profile/luc-paquette) introduced me to [Colleen Lewis](https://cs.illinois.edu/about/people/faculty/colleenl) over email because she was coordinating with the university to provide housing for me over the summer at Presby Hall.

I'll be here at Presby by myself for the first two weeks, but I'll be sharing this 4-bedroom suite with other students soon. Everyone I've met so far has been incredibly friendly and welcoming. In fact, Luc and his wife picked me up from the airport to take me to Presby, and the UIUC students who staff the front desk here have helped get me set up, and they've given me lots of information about the area I'm living in. Presby is within walking distance from Green Street, where there are restaurants and businesses, including a small Target that sells groceries and other (dorm living) necessities. My first day of the DREU program begins tomorrow. I'm meeting with Luc at his office at 9:30 am, and I'm excited to get started! 

## May 13 - May 17

I met Juan Pinto, a PhD student at UIUC, during my initial meeting with Luc. We discussed the overall project, what the next steps in the process should be, and we made plans to meet again Wednesday afternoon after I had some time to review the mock data I helped to generate on May 9th. Luc also invited me to join the INVITE Institute's Slack Channel where I could ask questions and attend meetings with other people on this project.

Over the next few days, I was also given read-only access to the database via HeidiSQL and Admin/Developer privileges on the Minecraft server where the learning environment was built. I attended INVITE's strand1 meeting on Slack, and I met with Jeff Ginger virtually to talk about the data and the learning environment. He walked me through installing MultiMC to navigate the WHIMC/Minecraft server that data is being collected from. On Wednesday, I met with Luc to go over my initial notes on the data, and we agreed on a regular day/time to meet once a week. Luc also wanted me to meet with Juan weekly to discuss the project and receive help.

I spent most of Thursday and Friday acquainting myself with the learning environment. I have never played a videogame on a PC before, so learning how to navigate basic controls while I taught myself how to use the development tools I was given was challenging, but I think I'm starting to get the hang of it. The plan is to generate mock data for myself that I can look at to see if I can gain further incite into how to recognize points of challenge and persistence for student participants.

Lastly, I reached out to DREU about the DREU Student Kick-Off Webinar because the dates on the Summer Activities Calendar did not align with this year's calendar, and the link for this event was broken. I haven't heard back yet, but I hope to receive more information from DREU about the events I am meant to attend soon.
